---
layout: post
title: "Goals for 2012"
date: 2012-01-09 08:18
comments: true
categories: [Thoughts, Goals]
---

I have never been one to set New Year's resolutions. Personally, they instill a dangerous personal freedom that often yield naive, subconscious mentalities, such as I can do anything I want until December 31, and I will change abruptly the next day. However, my Ph.D. adviser has shown me the importance of setting goals in all things that I wish to accomplish as well as envisioning the finale to an arduous journey like a small child (read "John Ramey") that pictures the waning warmth of fresh chocolate chip cookies smeared on his face. My adviser has always encouraged short-term and long-term goals but never required them. As I recently found out, my employer does. In addition, these goals are reviewed at the end of the fiscal year so that employees are realistic and held accountable.

Now that I must list these formally at work, I have decided to post a number of career and personal goals here in order to hold myself accountable at the end of 2012 with the implicit assumption that [the world does not end](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2012_phenomenon). So, one year from now, if we are still here (**chuckle**), I will review my goal-completion success.

* Read to my son (almost) nightly.
* Hear my son laugh (almost) nightly.
* Take my wife out for a date night each week.
* Treat my wife to a significant outing each month.
* Finish dissertation.
* Successfully defend dissertation.
* Submit 4-6 articles for publication.
* Submit at least 3 R packages to [CRAN](http://cran.r-project.org/).
* Attend at least three conferences.
* Make at least two conference presentations.
* Find/maintain employment.
* Construct detailed plan and outline for my textbook.
* Take a real vacation.
* Run a half marathon. (I will consider this a success if I have signed up for an early 2013 race.)
* Transition my personal website from Wordpress to Octopress.
* Blog more.
* Check Tweets and email twice daily at a scheduled time.
* Spend time with my extended family.
* Read the literature at a scheduled time.
* Finish reading Izenman's Multivariate text.
* Read Lehmann's [Reminiscences of a Statistician: The Company I Kept](http://www.amazon.com/Reminiscences-Statistician-Company-Kept-ebook/dp/B0016Q4P26/ref=wl_it_dp_o_npd?ie=UTF8&coliid=I3T6NZ0PE0490O&colid=2LV0B8J7GGR69).
* Read Ewens and Grant's bioinformatics text.
* Read Bishop's PRML text.
* Read Gaussian Processes for Machine Learning.
* Read Barber's [Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning](http://web4.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/D.Barber/pmwiki/pmwiki.php?n=Main.Textbook).
* Read a significant portion of Devroye et al.'s Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition text.
* Reread Robert's The Bayesian Choice.
* Read Jaynes' Probability Theory text.
* Read Berger's Decision Theory text.
* Watch Boyd's Convex Optimization lectures.
* Read the Boyd Convex Optimization text.
* Finish reading Reamde.
* Read Rothfuss' The Name of the Wind.
* Become more proficient at debugging in R.

As I have assuredly not remembered the goals that I have verbally set, this list may change over the next few days.